# 常用内置函数整理

```python
# 数学运算
In [1]: abs??
Signature: abs(x, /)
Docstring: Return the absolute value of the argument.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [2]: complex??
Init signature: complex(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
complex(real[, imag]) -> complex number

Create a complex number from a real part and an optional imaginary part.
This is equivalent to (real + imag*1j) where imag defaults to 0.
Type:           type

In [3]: divmod??
Signature: divmod(x, y, /)
Docstring: Return the tuple (x//y, x%y).  Invariant: div*y + mod == x.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [4]: float??
Init signature: float(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
float(x) -> floating point number

Convert a string or number to a floating point number, if possible.
Type:           type

In [5]: int??
Init signature: int(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
int(x=0) -> integer
int(x, base=10) -> integer

Convert a number or string to an integer, or return 0 if no arguments
are given.  If x is a number, return x.__int__().  For floating point
numbers, this truncates towards zero.

If x is not a number or if base is given, then x must be a string,
bytes, or bytearray instance representing an integer literal in the
given base.  The literal can be preceded by '+' or '-' and be surrounded
by whitespace.  The base defaults to 10\.  Valid bases are 0 and 2-36.
Base 0 means to interpret the base from the string as an integer literal.
>>> int('0b100', base=0)
4
Type:           type

In [6]: pow??
Signature: pow(x, y, z=None, /)
Docstring:
Equivalent to x**y (with two arguments) or x**y % z (with three arguments)

Some types, such as ints, are able to use a more efficient algorithm when
invoked using the three argument form.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [7]: range??
Init signature: range(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
range(stop) -> range object
range(start, stop[, step]) -> range object

Return an object that produces a sequence of integers from start (inclusive)
to stop (exclusive) by step.  range(i, j) produces i, i+1, i+2, ..., j-1.
start defaults to 0, and stop is omitted!  range(4) produces 0, 1, 2, 3.
These are exactly the valid indices for a list of 4 elements.
When step is given, it specifies the increment (or decrement).
Type:           type

In [8]: round??
Docstring:
round(number[, ndigits]) -> number

Round a number to a given precision in decimal digits (default 0 digits).
This returns an int when called with one argument, otherwise the
same type as the number. ndigits may be negative.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [9]: sum??
Signature: sum(iterable, start=0, /)
Docstring:
Return the sum of a 'start' value (default: 0) plus an iterable of numbers

When the iterable is empty, return the start value.
This function is intended specifically for use with numeric values and may
reject non-numeric types.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [10]: oct??
Signature: oct(number, /)
Docstring:
Return the octal representation of an integer.

>>> oct(342391)
'0o1234567'
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [11]: hex??
Signature: hex(number, /)
Docstring:
Return the hexadecimal representation of an integer.

>>> hex(12648430)
'0xc0ffee'
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [12]: chr??
Signature: chr(i, /)
Docstring: Return a Unicode string of one character with ordinal i; 0 <= i <= 0x10ffff.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [13]: bin??
Signature: bin(number, /)
Docstring:
Return the binary representation of an integer.

>>> bin(2796202)
'0b1010101010101010101010'
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [14]: bool??
Init signature: bool(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
bool(x) -> bool

Returns True when the argument x is true, False otherwise.
The builtins True and False are the only two instances of the class bool.
The class bool is a subclass of the class int, and cannot be subclassed.
Type:           type

# 集合
In [15]: format??
Signature: format(value, format_spec='', /)
Docstring:
Return value.__format__(format_spec)

format_spec defaults to the empty string
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [16]: enumerate??
Init signature: enumerate(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
enumerate(iterable[, start]) -> iterator for index, value of iterable

Return an enumerate object.  iterable must be another object that supports
iteration.  The enumerate object yields pairs containing a count (from
start, which defaults to zero) and a value yielded by the iterable argument.
enumerate is useful for obtaining an indexed list:
    (0, seq[0]), (1, seq[1]), (2, seq[2]), ...
Type:           type

In [17]: iter??
Docstring:
iter(iterable) -> iterator
iter(callable, sentinel) -> iterator

Get an iterator from an object.  In the first form, the argument must
supply its own iterator, or be a sequence.
In the second form, the callable is called until it returns the sentinel.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [18]: max??
Docstring:
max(iterable, *[, default=obj, key=func]) -> value
max(arg1, arg2, *args, *[, key=func]) -> value

With a single iterable argument, return its biggest item. The
default keyword-only argument specifies an object to return if
the provided iterable is empty.
With two or more arguments, return the largest argument.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [19]: min??
Docstring:
min(iterable, *[, default=obj, key=func]) -> value
min(arg1, arg2, *args, *[, key=func]) -> value

With a single iterable argument, return its smallest item. The
default keyword-only argument specifies an object to return if
the provided iterable is empty.
With two or more arguments, return the smallest argument.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [20]: dict??
Init signature: dict(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
dict() -> new empty dictionary
dict(mapping) -> new dictionary initialized from a mapping object's
    (key, value) pairs
dict(iterable) -> new dictionary initialized as if via:
    d = {}
    for k, v in iterable:
        d[k] = v
dict(**kwargs) -> new dictionary initialized with the name=value pairs
    in the keyword argument list.  For example:  dict(one=1, two=2)
Type:           type

In [21]: list??
Init signature: list(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
list() -> new empty list
list(iterable) -> new list initialized from iterable's items
Type:           type

In [22]: set??
Init signature: set(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
set() -> new empty set object
set(iterable) -> new set object

Build an unordered collection of unique elements.
Type:           type

In [23]: frozenset??
Init signature: frozenset(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
frozenset() -> empty frozenset object
frozenset(iterable) -> frozenset object

Build an immutable unordered collection of unique elements.
Type:           type

In [24]: str??
Init signature: str(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
str(object='') -> str
str(bytes_or_buffer[, encoding[, errors]]) -> str

Create a new string object from the given object. If encoding or
errors is specified, then the object must expose a data buffer
that will be decoded using the given encoding and error handler.
Otherwise, returns the result of object.__str__() (if defined)
or repr(object).
encoding defaults to sys.getdefaultencoding().
errors defaults to 'strict'.
Type:           type

In [25]: sorted??
Signature: sorted(iterable, key=None, reverse=False)
Docstring:
Return a new list containing all items from the iterable in ascending order.

A custom key function can be supplied to customise the sort order, and the
reverse flag can be set to request the result in descending order.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [26]: tuple??
Init signature: tuple(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
tuple() -> empty tuple
tuple(iterable) -> tuple initialized from iterable's items

If the argument is a tuple, the return value is the same object.
Type:           type

# 逻辑判断
In [27]: all??
Signature: all(iterable, /)
Docstring:
Return True if bool(x) is True for all values x in the iterable.

If the iterable is empty, return True.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [28]: any??
Signature: any(iterable, /)
Docstring:
Return True if bool(x) is True for any x in the iterable.

If the iterable is empty, return False.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

# 反射
In [29]: callable??
Signature: callable(obj, /)
Docstring:
Return whether the object is callable (i.e., some kind of function).

Note that classes are callable, as are instances of classes with a
__call__() method.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [30]: classmethod??
Init signature: classmethod(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
classmethod(function) -> method

Convert a function to be a class method.

A class method receives the class as implicit first argument,
just like an instance method receives the instance.
To declare a class method, use this idiom:

  class C:
      def f(cls, arg1, arg2, ...): ...
      f = classmethod(f)

It can be called either on the class (e.g. C.f()) or on an instance
(e.g. C().f()).  The instance is ignored except for its class.
If a class method is called for a derived class, the derived class
object is passed as the implied first argument.

Class methods are different than C++ or Java static methods.
If you want those, see the staticmethod builtin.
Type:           type

In [31]: compile??
Signature: compile(source, filename, mode, flags=0, dont_inherit=False, optimize=-1)
Docstring:
Compile source into a code object that can be executed by exec() or eval().

The source code may represent a Python module, statement or expression.
The filename will be used for run-time error messages.
The mode must be 'exec' to compile a module, 'single' to compile a
single (interactive) statement, or 'eval' to compile an expression.
The flags argument, if present, controls which future statements influence
the compilation of the code.
The dont_inherit argument, if true, stops the compilation inheriting
the effects of any future statements in effect in the code calling
compile; if absent or false these statements do influence the compilation,
in addition to any features explicitly specified.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [32]: dir??
Docstring:
dir([object]) -> list of strings

If called without an argument, return the names in the current scope.
Else, return an alphabetized list of names comprising (some of) the attributes
of the given object, and of attributes reachable from it.
If the object supplies a method named __dir__, it will be used; otherwise
the default dir() logic is used and returns:
  for a module object: the module's attributes.
  for a class object:  its attributes, and recursively the attributes
    of its bases.
  for any other object: its attributes, its class's attributes, and
    recursively the attributes of its class's base classes.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [33]: delattr??
Signature: delattr(obj, name, /)
Docstring:
Deletes the named attribute from the given object.

delattr(x, 'y') is equivalent to ``del x.y''
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [34]: eval??
Signature: eval(source, globals=None, locals=None, /)
Docstring:
Evaluate the given source in the context of globals and locals.

The source may be a string representing a Python expression
or a code object as returned by compile().
The globals must be a dictionary and locals can be any mapping,
defaulting to the current globals and locals.
If only globals is given, locals defaults to it.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [35]: exec??
Signature: exec(source, globals=None, locals=None, /)
Docstring:
Execute the given source in the context of globals and locals.

The source may be a string representing one or more Python statements
or a code object as returned by compile().
The globals must be a dictionary and locals can be any mapping,
defaulting to the current globals and locals.
If only globals is given, locals defaults to it.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [36]: filter??
Init signature: filter(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
filter(function or None, iterable) --> filter object

Return an iterator yielding those items of iterable for which function(item)
is true. If function is None, return the items that are true.
Type:           type

In [37]: getattr??
Docstring:
getattr(object, name[, default]) -> value

Get a named attribute from an object; getattr(x, 'y') is equivalent to x.y.
When a default argument is given, it is returned when the attribute doesn't
exist; without it, an exception is raised in that case.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [38]: globals??
Signature: globals()
Docstring:
Return the dictionary containing the current scope's global variables.

NOTE: Updates to this dictionary *will* affect name lookups in the current
global scope and vice-versa.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [39]: hasattr??
Signature: hasattr(obj, name, /)
Docstring:
Return whether the object has an attribute with the given name.

This is done by calling getattr(obj, name) and catching AttributeError.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [40]: hash??
Signature: hash(obj, /)
Docstring:
Return the hash value for the given object.

Two objects that compare equal must also have the same hash value, but the
reverse is not necessarily true.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [41]: id??
Signature: id(obj, /)
Docstring:
Return the identity of an object.

This is guaranteed to be unique among simultaneously existing objects.
(CPython uses the object's memory address.)
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [42]: isinstance??
Signature: isinstance(obj, class_or_tuple, /)
Docstring:
Return whether an object is an instance of a class or of a subclass thereof.

A tuple, as in ``isinstance(x, (A, B, ...))``, may be given as the target to
check against. This is equivalent to ``isinstance(x, A) or isinstance(x, B)
or ...`` etc.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [43]: issubclass??
Signature: issubclass(cls, class_or_tuple, /)
Docstring:
Return whether 'cls' is a derived from another class or is the same class.

A tuple, as in ``issubclass(x, (A, B, ...))``, may be given as the target to
check against. This is equivalent to ``issubclass(x, A) or issubclass(x, B)
or ...`` etc.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [44]: len??
Signature: len(obj, /)
Docstring: Return the number of items in a container.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [45]: locals??
Signature: locals()
Docstring:
Return a dictionary containing the current scope's local variables.

NOTE: Whether or not updates to this dictionary will affect name lookups in
the local scope and vice-versa is *implementation dependent* and not
covered by any backwards compatibility guarantees.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [46]: map??
Init signature: map(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
map(func, *iterables) --> map object

Make an iterator that computes the function using arguments from
each of the iterables.  Stops when the shortest iterable is exhausted.
Type:           type

In [47]: memoryview??
Init signature: memoryview(module, /, object)
Docstring:      Create a new memoryview object which references the given object.
Type:           type

In [48]: next??
Docstring:
next(iterator[, default])

Return the next item from the iterator. If default is given and the iterator
is exhausted, it is returned instead of raising StopIteration.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [49]: object??
Init signature: object()
Docstring:      The most base type
Type:           type

In [50]: property??
Init signature: property(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
property(fget=None, fset=None, fdel=None, doc=None) -> property attribute

fget is a function to be used for getting an attribute value, and likewise
fset is a function for setting, and fdel a function for del'ing, an
attribute.  Typical use is to define a managed attribute x:

class C(object):
    def getx(self): return self._x
    def setx(self, value): self._x = value
    def delx(self): del self._x
    x = property(getx, setx, delx, "I'm the 'x' property.")

Decorators make defining new properties or modifying existing ones easy:

class C(object):
    @property
    def x(self):
        "I am the 'x' property."
        return self._x
    @x.setter
    def x(self, value):
        self._x = value
    @x.deleter
    def x(self):
        del self._x
Type:           type

In [51]: setattr??
Signature: setattr(obj, name, value, /)
Docstring:
Sets the named attribute on the given object to the specified value.

setattr(x, 'y', v) is equivalent to ``x.y = v''
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [52]: repr??
Signature: repr(obj, /)
Docstring:
Return the canonical string representation of the object.

For many object types, including most builtins, eval(repr(obj)) == obj.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [53]: slice??
Init signature: slice(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
slice(stop)
slice(start, stop[, step])

Create a slice object.  This is used for extended slicing (e.g. a[0:10:2]).
Type:           type

In [54]: staticmethod??
Init signature: staticmethod(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
staticmethod(function) -> method

Convert a function to be a static method.

A static method does not receive an implicit first argument.
To declare a static method, use this idiom:

     class C:
     def f(arg1, arg2, ...): ...
     f = staticmethod(f)

It can be called either on the class (e.g. C.f()) or on an instance
(e.g. C().f()).  The instance is ignored except for its class.

Static methods in Python are similar to those found in Java or C++.
For a more advanced concept, see the classmethod builtin.
Type:           type

In [55]: super??
Init signature: super(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
super() -> same as super(__class__, <first argument>)
super(type) -> unbound super object
super(type, obj) -> bound super object; requires isinstance(obj, type)
super(type, type2) -> bound super object; requires issubclass(type2, type)
Typical use to call a cooperative superclass method:
class C(B):
    def meth(self, arg):
        super().meth(arg)
This works for class methods too:
class C(B):
    @classmethod
    def cmeth(cls, arg):
        super().cmeth(arg)
Type:           type

In [56]: type??
Init signature: type(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
type(object_or_name, bases, dict)
type(object) -> the object's type
type(name, bases, dict) -> a new type
Type:           type

In [57]: zip??
Init signature: zip(self, /, *args, **kwargs)
Docstring:     
zip(iter1 [,iter2 [...]]) --> zip object

Return a zip object whose .__next__() method returns a tuple where
the i-th element comes from the i-th iterable argument.  The .__next__()
method continues until the shortest iterable in the argument sequence
is exhausted and then it raises StopIteration.
Type:           type

In [58]: vars??
Docstring:
vars([object]) -> dictionary

Without arguments, equivalent to locals().
With an argument, equivalent to object.__dict__.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

# IO
In [59]: input??
Signature: input(prompt=None, /)
Docstring:
Read a string from standard input.  The trailing newline is stripped.

The prompt string, if given, is printed to standard output without a
trailing newline before reading input.

If the user hits EOF (*nix: Ctrl-D, Windows: Ctrl-Z+Return), raise EOFError.
On *nix systems, readline is used if available.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [60]: open??
Signature: open(file, mode='r', buffering=-1, encoding=None, errors=None, newline=None, closefd=True, opener=None)
Docstring:
Open file and return a stream.  Raise IOError upon failure.

file is either a text or byte string giving the name (and the path
if the file isn't in the current working directory) of the file to
be opened or an integer file descriptor of the file to be
wrapped. (If a file descriptor is given, it is closed when the
returned I/O object is closed, unless closefd is set to False.)

mode is an optional string that specifies the mode in which the file
is opened. It defaults to 'r' which means open for reading in text
mode.  Other common values are 'w' for writing (truncating the file if
it already exists), 'x' for creating and writing to a new file, and
'a' for appending (which on some Unix systems, means that all writes
append to the end of the file regardless of the current seek position).
In text mode, if encoding is not specified the encoding used is platform
dependent: locale.getpreferredencoding(False) is called to get the
current locale encoding. (For reading and writing raw bytes use binary
mode and leave encoding unspecified.) The available modes are:

========= ===============================================================
Character Meaning
--------- ---------------------------------------------------------------
'r'       open for reading (default)
'w'       open for writing, truncating the file first
'x'       create a new file and open it for writing
'a'       open for writing, appending to the end of the file if it exists
'b'       binary mode
't'       text mode (default)
'+'       open a disk file for updating (reading and writing)
'U'       universal newline mode (deprecated)
========= ===============================================================

The default mode is 'rt' (open for reading text). For binary random
access, the mode 'w+b' opens and truncates the file to 0 bytes, while
'r+b' opens the file without truncation. The 'x' mode implies 'w' and
raises an `FileExistsError` if the file already exists.

Python distinguishes between files opened in binary and text modes,
even when the underlying operating system doesn't. Files opened in
binary mode (appending 'b' to the mode argument) return contents as
bytes objects without any decoding. In text mode (the default, or when
't' is appended to the mode argument), the contents of the file are
returned as strings, the bytes having been first decoded using a
platform-dependent encoding or using the specified encoding if given.

'U' mode is deprecated and will raise an exception in future versions
of Python.  It has no effect in Python 3\.  Use newline to control
universal newlines mode.

buffering is an optional integer used to set the buffering policy.
Pass 0 to switch buffering off (only allowed in binary mode), 1 to select
line buffering (only usable in text mode), and an integer > 1 to indicate
the size of a fixed-size chunk buffer.  When no buffering argument is
given, the default buffering policy works as follows:

* Binary files are buffered in fixed-size chunks; the size of the buffer
  is chosen using a heuristic trying to determine the underlying device's
  "block size" and falling back on `io.DEFAULT_BUFFER_SIZE`.
  On many systems, the buffer will typically be 4096 or 8192 bytes long.

* "Interactive" text files (files for which isatty() returns True)
  use line buffering.  Other text files use the policy described above
  for binary files.

encoding is the name of the encoding used to decode or encode the
file. This should only be used in text mode. The default encoding is
platform dependent, but any encoding supported by Python can be
passed.  See the codecs module for the list of supported encodings.

errors is an optional string that specifies how encoding errors are to
be handled---this argument should not be used in binary mode. Pass
'strict' to raise a ValueError exception if there is an encoding error
(the default of None has the same effect), or pass 'ignore' to ignore
errors. (Note that ignoring encoding errors can lead to data loss.)
See the documentation for codecs.register or run 'help(codecs.Codec)'
for a list of the permitted encoding error strings.

newline controls how universal newlines works (it only applies to text
mode). It can be None, '', '\n', '\r', and '\r\n'.  It works as
follows:

* On input, if newline is None, universal newlines mode is
  enabled. Lines in the input can end in '\n', '\r', or '\r\n', and
  these are translated into '\n' before being returned to the
  caller. If it is '', universal newline mode is enabled, but line
  endings are returned to the caller untranslated. If it has any of
  the other legal values, input lines are only terminated by the given
  string, and the line ending is returned to the caller untranslated.

* On output, if newline is None, any '\n' characters written are
  translated to the system default line separator, os.linesep. If
  newline is '' or '\n', no translation takes place. If newline is any
  of the other legal values, any '\n' characters written are translated
  to the given string.

If closefd is False, the underlying file descriptor will be kept open
when the file is closed. This does not work when a file name is given
and must be True in that case.

A custom opener can be used by passing a callable as *opener*. The
underlying file descriptor for the file object is then obtained by
calling *opener* with (*file*, *flags*). *opener* must return an open
file descriptor (passing os.open as *opener* results in functionality
similar to passing None).

open() returns a file object whose type depends on the mode, and
through which the standard file operations such as reading and writing
are performed. When open() is used to open a file in a text mode ('w',
'r', 'wt', 'rt', etc.), it returns a TextIOWrapper. When used to open
a file in a binary mode, the returned class varies: in read binary
mode, it returns a BufferedReader; in write binary and append binary
modes, it returns a BufferedWriter, and in read/write mode, it returns
a BufferedRandom.

It is also possible to use a string or bytearray as a file for both
reading and writing. For strings StringIO can be used like a file
opened in a text mode, and for bytes a BytesIO can be used like a file
opened in a binary mode.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method

In [61]: print??
Docstring:
print(value, ..., sep=' ', end='\n', file=sys.stdout, flush=False)

Prints the values to a stream, or to sys.stdout by default.
Optional keyword arguments:
file:  a file-like object (stream); defaults to the current sys.stdout.
sep:   string inserted between values, default a space.
end:   string appended after the last value, default a newline.
flush: whether to forcibly flush the stream.
Type:      builtin_function_or_method
```
